---
title: Introducing the C4 to existing projects
date: 2018-05-04 00:00:00 +0000
---
Let's do a thought experiment. Jump into your imaginary time machine and head on over to the year 2000.

You're tasked with ensuring Encyclopaedia Britannica's dominance over Wikipedia by _becoming_ Wikipedia. There's still a year before Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger are set to register wikipedia.org. Britannica has a full year head-start. They substantial resources and a huge market share along with a brand that has lasted since 1768. This should be a very easy task. All you need to do is convince the CEO of Encyclopaedia Britannica to fire all the expert contributors (including 110 Nobel prize winners, 5 former US presidents, and 4000 expert contributors) and simply let _anyone_ edit it instead.

You'll have just as much trouble _today_ trying to convince the gatekeepers (and contributors) of existing open source projects - especially cryptocurrencies - to adopt the software development equivalent of the Wikipedia model. 

This is not surprising however, and it's unfair to criticise people for not entering the unknown. The environment that Monero is being developed in is the closest I've found to the Wikipedia model, which is why I personally value it far higher than the market does. It's the most friendly and open of all cryptocurrency communities. Monero is the _closest_ any cryptocurrency has come to using the Wikipedia model - and yet it's a not even in the same galaxy.

Now imagine you're a 'gatekeeper' at Monero and you want to introduce the C4 contribution protocol, which is the Wikipedia model of the software development world. There are _serious_ consequences for rocking the boat and messing things up. Things are working very well right now. Brilliant research is getting done. They are pushing the envelope in terms of privacy and security. They are coming up with quite genius solutions to blockchain bloat. Things really are working remarkably well. Would you try and (truly) adopt the C4? If something goes wrong, it's your head on the chopping board. I'd much rather be the CEO who sinks a large company than the vocal developer who's calls to adopt the C4 sink a cryptocurrency. With so many people having their money involved, the personal consequences for the the developers, should they be deemed responsible for anything going wrong, would be disastrous.  People would be out for blood. 